# Airbnb New User Bookings

## Problem Statement
The problem this capstone project aims at solving is predicting where a newly registered Airbnb user will book his/her first travel experience. By analyzing a variety of data such as user informations, country information and user browsing session records, the project aims at coming up with a model that could accurately detect where a user would book his/her first experience from an array of 34000+ cities across 190+ countries.

## Approach 

The problem was divided into several steps:

1. **Data Wrangling:** The datasets were uploaded to a dataframe and explored. Null values were filled in wherever appropriate and polluted values were discarded.
2. **Inferential Statistics:** Various statistical tools such as the Z-Test and the Chi Square Significance Test were used to deduce relationship between various features.
3. **EDA:** Extensive data visualisation and summary statistics were used to extract insights and pattern from the various datasets.
4. **Feature Engineering:** From the insights discovered in the previous step, new features were engineering and redundant features were dropped. A few variabled were binned in order to give greater accuracy.
5. **Machine Learning:** Various classifiers were tested and their accuracy recorded. The best classifier was then hyperparamter tuned using Grid Search Cross Validation. This model was then fit on the test users and the final submission file was obtained.

## Final Results 

The Official Kaggle Score Obtained was 0.86527. The following Business Insights were given.


* The majority of Airbnb's users are on Apple Devices. Additionally, Android users are the minority and don't book that often. **It makes perfect business sense to invest more resources in improving the user experience of iOS apps.** On the other hand, Airbnb could also investigate into the smaller conversion rate of Android Users and try to deduce some correlation with certain quirks of the Android Airbnb App.
* Desktop Users book far more often than other device users. **This could mean that people use smaller devices for surfing and exploration and desktops to make the actual booking.** The User Experience for the apps on different devices  must be tuned accordingly to achieve best results.
* Most of the Airbnb Users tend to book an Airbnb within the country. **Therefore, it makes most sense to give the users more recommendations that are endemic to the country.** American users should get more Experience and Host recommendations within the USA. This is not the case with the current Airbnb site where most recommendations are that of exotic locations in faraway places.
* People who haven't filled out their information such as Age and Gender are the least likely to book Airbnbs. This is likely due to the fact that they are only in the exploration stage. **Maximum marketing effort must be aimed at these people and the most enticing yet affordable offers must be made to them to increase their rate of conversion.**

## Repository Structure

1. **airbnb.ipynb:** The main Jupyter notebook containing all the code.
2. **submission.csv:** The final CSV submission file generated by the script.
3. **Airbnb Slide Deck.pptx:** The slide deck consisting of the final report.
4. **reports:** The folder containing all the reports. Includes Project Proposal, Data Wrangling, Inferential Statistics, Milestone Report and Final Report.